This page proposes a set of technical options that may be used to exchange AU PS documents. These options are not exhaustive and provided only to facilitate discussion, feedback and implementation testing at future connectathons, Sparked testing, and demonstration events. 

The exchange options proposed in this page include:

- [IPS $summary FHIR operation](#summary)
- [IPA $docref FHIR operation](#docref)
- [Document Bundle FHIR interactions](#documentbundle)
- [Document Bundle and DocumentReference FHIR interactions](#documentbundledocumentreference)
- [SMART Health Links](#smarthealthlinks)
- [Encrypted File Exchange](#encryptedexchange)


## IPS $summary FHIR operation <a name="summary" />

The International Patient Summary (IPS) 2.0.0 Implementation Guide defines the [IPS Summary](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-ips/OperationDefinition-summary.html) `$summary` operation and [IPS Server Capability Statement](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-ips/CapabilityStatement-ips-server.html), which recommends an IPS Server implements the `$summary` operation as one of the two recommended operations for [generating and accessing IPS documents](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-ips/Generation-and-Data-Inclusion.html#generating--accessing-ips-documents). 

The $summary operation has two endpoint URLs based on the Patient resource:

- [base]/Patient/$summary - a Patient resource type endpoint where a patient (business) identifier is provided as a parameter in the operation request body
- [base]/Patient/[id]/$summary - a Patient instance endpoint where a patient resource id is provided as a parameter in the URL path

An optional profile parameter can be specified in the request, allowing a server to generate a FHIR document matching the profile requested (e.g. AU Patient Summary). The IPS profile is the default profile generated by the server when a profile parameter is not specified in the request, or when the profile parameter is not supported by the server. 

The `$summary` operation returns a FHIR document Bundle resource containing a Composition resource, and its referenced resources. The returned document may be generated on-demand and represent the latest available patient summary information. It is not expected that the patient summary document is stored as part of the request, therefore this operation does not support use cases where it is required to retrieve a document generated at a previous point in time.

A Patient Summary Consumer can invoke the Patient `$summary` operation on a Patient Summary Server to retrieve an on-demand, system generated patient summary. The operation can also be used internally within a system to generate an initial Patient Summary document that a user can review, curate, assert, store or take further action on.

*TODO diagram*

## IPA $docref FHIR operation <a name="docref" />




## Document Bundle FHIR interactions <a name="documentbundle" />




## Document Bundle and DocumentReference FHIR interactions <a name="documentbundledocumentreference" />





## SMART Health Links <a name="smarthealthlinks" />






## Encrypted File Exchange <a name="encryptedexchange" />